docs: if-else component example (#7599)
langflow-ai/langflow: docs/docs/Components/components-logic.md

## Conditional router (If-Else component)

This component routes messages by comparing two strings.
It evaluates a condition by comparing two text inputs using the specified operator and routes the message to `true_result` or `false_result`.

> The operator looks for single strings based on your defined [Operator behavior](#operator-behavior), but it can also search for multiple words by regex matching.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The operator looks for single strings based on your defined [operator behavior](#operator-behavior), but it can also search for multiple words by regex matching.
```

To use the **Conditional router** component to check incoming messages with regex matching, do the following:

1. Connect the **If-Else** component's **Text Input** port to a **Chat Input** component.
2. In the If-Else component, enter the following values.
* In the **Match Text** field, enter `.*(urgent|warning|caution).*`. The component looks for these values. The regex match is case sensitive, so to look for all permutations of `warning`, enter `warning|Warning|WARNING`.
* In the **Operator** field, enter `regex`. The component looks for the strings `urgent`, `warning`, and `caution`. For more operators, see [Operator behavior](#operator-behavior).
* In the **Message** field, enter `New Message Detected`. This field is optional. The message is sent to both the **True** and **False** ports.
The component is now set up to send a `New Message Detected` message out of its **True** port if it matches any of the strings.

> If no strings are detected, it sends a message out the **False** port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no strings are detected, it sends a message out of the **False** port.
```

3. Create two identical flows to process the messages. Connect an **Open AI** component, a **Prompt**, and a **Chat Output** component together.
4. Connect one chain to the **If-Else** component's **True** port, and one chain to the **False** port.

The flow looks like this:

![A conditional router connected to two OpenAI components](/img/component-conditional-router.png)

5. Add your **OpenAI API key** to both **OpenAI** components.
6. In both **Prompt** components, enter the behavior you want each route to take.
When a match is found:
```text
Send a message that a new message has been received and added to the Urgent queue.
```
When a match is not found:
```text
Send a message that a new message has been received and added to the backlog.
```
7. Open the **Playground**.

> Send the flow some messages. Your messages route differently based on the if-else component's evaluation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Send the flow some messages. Your messages route differently based on the if-else component's evaluation.
```

This component routes messages by comparing two strings. It evaluates a condition by comparing two text inputs using the specified operator and routes the message to `true_result` or `false_result`.

> The operator can looks for single strings based on your defined [Operator behavior](#operator-behavior), but it can also search for multiple words by regex matching.

Author: ```suggestion
The operator looks for single strings based on your defined [Operator behavior](#operator-behavior), but it can also search for multiple words by regex matching.
```

|--------------|-------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| run_outputs  | A `List` of types `Data`, `Message,` or `DataFrame`  | All outputs are generated from running the flow.                   |

## Legacy components

> 

Reviewer: You should not have a heading without any body text. Add something to describe what this section is about.

> ## Data Conditional Router

Reviewer: Should this be a third-level heading?

Author: Yes

:::important
This component is in **Legacy**, which means it is no longer in active development as of Langflow version 1.3.
:::

This component routes `Data` objects based on a condition applied to a specified key, including boolean validation. It can process either a single Data object or a list of Data objects.

This component is particularly useful in workflows that require conditional routing of complex data structures, enabling dynamic decision-making based on data content.

### Inputs

| Name          | Type     | Description                                                                       |
|---------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | data_input    | Data     | The Data object or list of Data objects to process. Can handle both single items and lists. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| data_input    | Data     | The Data object or list of Data objects to process. This input can handle both single items and lists. |
```

| key_name      | String   | The name of the key in the Data object to check.                                  |
| operator      | Dropdown | The operator to apply. Options: "equals", "not equals", "contains", "starts with", "ends with", "boolean validator". Default: "equals". |
| compare_value | String   | The value to compare against. Not shown/used when operator is "boolean validator". |

### Outputs

| Name         | Type        | Description                                          |
|--------------|-------------|------------------------------------------------------|
| true_output  | Data/List   | Output when the condition is met.                    |
| false_output | Data/List   | Output when the condition is not met.                |

> ### Operator Behavior

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Operator behavior
```

- **equals**: Exact match comparison between the key's value and compare_value
- **not equals**: Inverse of exact match
- **contains**: Checks if compare_value is found within the key's value
- **starts with**: Checks if the key's value begins with compare_value

> - **ends with**: Checks if the key's value ends with compare_value

Reviewer: Add periods.

- **boolean validator**: Treats the key's value as a boolean. The following values are considered true:
  - Boolean `true`
  - Strings: "true", "1", "yes", "y", "on" (case-insensitive)
  - Any other value is converted using Python's `bool()` function

> ### List Processing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### List processing
```

The following actions occur when processing a list of Data objects:
- Each object in the list is evaluated individually
- Objects meeting the condition go to true_output
- Objects not meeting the condition go to false_output

> - If all objects go to one output, the other output is empty

Reviewer: Add periods.

> ## Deprecated components

Reviewer: You should not have a heading without any body text. Add something to describe what this section is about.

|--------------|-------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| run_outputs  | A `List` of types `Data`, `Message,` or `DataFrame`  | All outputs are generated from running the flow.                   |

## Legacy components

> Legacy components are no longer in active development but are backward compatible.

Author: Legacy components are available to use but no longer supported.

> Legacy components are no longer in active development but are backward compatible.

Author: ```suggestion
Legacy components are available to use but no longer supported.
```
